documentation/ideas.md, before:

# Ideas

## Features for arrays

A negative indices corresponding to reverse access of the array, like in Python:

```
var(arr, [1,2,3])
print(arr[-1]) // 3
```

Adding to arrays using a library function instead of with merge directly:

```
defun(addTo, (arr, value) -> merge(arr, [value]))

var(arr1, [1,2,3]) // [1,2,3]
var(arr2, addTo([], 4)) // [4]
var(arr3, merge(arr1, arr2)) // [1,2,3,4]
```

A spread syntax for merging arrays:

```
var(arr1, [1, 2, 3])
var(arr2, [...arr1, 4, 5, 6]) // 1,2,3,4,5,6
```

### Functional programming features

filter:

```
filter(arr, '(e) -> e > 5)

filter([1,2,5,6,7]) // [6, 7]
```

## Maps (key:value pairings)

```
var(map, {
  key <- value,
  key2 <- value
})
```

## Alternate assignment syntax

```
var(a,10)
a <- 22
print(a) // 22
```

## Built-in http servers

```
// pseuodocode
var(homePage, "<h1>Hello world</h1>")
var(server, createServer("localhost", 8080))
server('() -> {
  addRoute("GET", "/", '(request, response) -> {
    logRequest()
    var(headers, defaultHttpHeaderSet("GET"))
    var(body, homePage)
    sendResponse(200, headers, body)
  })
})
```

## Looping

### Infinite loop

```
loop(print("Hello"))
```

`loop` accepts an expression

```
loop({
  printMenu()
  var(in, input())
  executeIn(in)
})
```

`loop` can accept a block of expressions

- use a `break()` function to exit the loop expression

### While loop

```
var(i, 1)
loop(i <= 10, {
  print(i)
  assign(i, i+1)
})
```

### For loop

```
for(var(i, 1), i <= 10, {
  print(i)
}, assign(i, i+1))
```

- `for` defines a scope that also includes `i`, meaning `i` is only accessible in the for loop itself

#### Nested

```
for(var(unit, 1), unit <= 10, {
  for(var(multiple, 1), multiple <= 10, {
    print(unit + " * " + multiple + " = " + (unit * multiple))
  })
}, assign(i, i+1))
```

foreach loop:

```
foreach(element in iterable, {

})
```

Commit message:

Added alternate left arrow assignment syntax for variables and arrays

documentation/ideas.md, after:

# Ideas

## Alternate assignment syntax

The current assignment syntax is horribly verbose:

```
assign(a, "Hello")
```

A less verbose version might look like:

```
identifier <- newValue
```

The `newValue` may be any ternary or block expression in the grammar set, this keeps in line with the current assignment rule and merely requires modifying the tokeniser and parser to account for the new *left arrow* symbol.

## Features for arrays

A negative indices corresponding to reverse access of the array, like in Python:

```
var(arr, [1,2,3])
print(arr[-1]) // 3
```

Adding to arrays using a library function instead of with merge directly:

```
defun(addTo, (arr, value) -> merge(arr, [value]))

var(arr1, [1,2,3]) // [1,2,3]
var(arr2, addTo([], 4)) // [4]
var(arr3, merge(arr1, arr2)) // [1,2,3,4]
```

A spread syntax for merging arrays:

```
var(arr1, [1, 2, 3])
var(arr2, [...arr1, 4, 5, 6]) // 1,2,3,4,5,6
```

### Functional programming features

filter:

```
filter(arr, '(e) -> e > 5)

filter([1,2,5,6,7]) // [6, 7]
```

## Maps (key:value pairings)

```
var(map, {
  key <- value,
  key2 <- value
})
```

## Alternate assignment syntax

```
var(a,10)
a <- 22
print(a) // 22
```

## Built-in http servers

```
// pseuodocode
var(homePage, "<h1>Hello world</h1>")
var(server, createServer("localhost", 8080))
server('() -> {
  addRoute("GET", "/", '(request, response) -> {
    logRequest()
    var(headers, defaultHttpHeaderSet("GET"))
    var(body, homePage)
    sendResponse(200, headers, body)
  })
})
```

## Looping

### Infinite loop

```
loop(print("Hello"))
```

`loop` accepts an expression

```
loop({
  printMenu()
  var(in, input())
  executeIn(in)
})
```

`loop` can accept a block of expressions

- use a `break()` function to exit the loop expression

### While loop

```
var(i, 1)
loop(i <= 10, {
  print(i)
  assign(i, i+1)
})
```

### For loop

```
for(var(i, 1), i <= 10, {
  print(i)
}, assign(i, i+1))
```

- `for` defines a scope that also includes `i`, meaning `i` is only accessible in the for loop itself

#### Nested

```
for(var(unit, 1), unit <= 10, {
  for(var(multiple, 1), multiple <= 10, {
    print(unit + " * " + multiple + " = " + (unit * multiple))
  })
}, assign(i, i+1))
```

foreach loop:

```
foreach(element in iterable, {

})
```
